{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Legal Information\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The {\i QuestWorlds} System Reference Document 2.2 (\u8220"QSRD22\u8221") describes the rules of {\i Hero Wars}, {\i HeroQuest}, and {\b QuestWorlds}. You may incorporate these rules, wholly or part, into a derivative work, through the use of the Open Gaming License, Version 1.0a. You should read and understand the terms of that license before creating a derivative work from this material.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The text of the Open Gaming License itself is not Open Game Content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Product Identity\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, runes, proper names (characters, icons, place names, deities, etc.), plots, story elements, locations, characters, artwork, trade dress, the world and mythology of Glorantha, {\i HeroQuest}, and {\i Hero Wars}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Open Content\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Except for material designated as Product Identity (see above), the game mechanics of this Moon Design game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Gaming License version 1.0a Section 1(d). No portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be reproduced in any form without written permission.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Open Game License\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc.\u160?and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast Inc (\u8220"Wizards\u8221"). All Rights Reserved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Definitions: (a)\u8220"Contributors\u8221" means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game Content; (b)\u8220"Derivative Material\u8221" means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) \u8220"Distribute\u8221" means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d)\u8220"Open Game Content\u8221" means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) \u8220"Product Identity\u8221" means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) \u8220"Trademark\u8221" means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) \u8220"Use\u8221", \u8220"Used\u8221" or \u8220"Using\u8221" means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) \u8220"You\u8221" or \u8220"Your\u8221" means the licensee in terms of this agreement.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License. 3.Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder\u8217's name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 8.\tx360\tab Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 9.\tx360\tab Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content You Distribute.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 10.\tx360\tab Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 11.\tx360\tab Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 12.\tx360\tab Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 13.\tx360\tab Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 14.\tx360\tab COPYRIGHT NOTICE Open Game License v 1.0a Copyright 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i QuestWorlds}. Copyright 2018, Moon Design Publications, LLC; Authors: original rules Robin Laws, developed by Greg Stafford, Jeff Richard, Ian Cooper, David Dunham, Lawrence Whitaker, Mark Galeotti, Stephen Martin, and Roderick Robinson.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Chained Contests and Plot Edits from Mythic Russia, Copyright 2006, 2010 by Mark Galeotti, developed by Graham Robinson (for \u8220"Chained Contests\u8221") and added as Open Game Content here with permission.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Credits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Original Rules: Robin Laws\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Further Development: Ian Cooper, David Dunham, Mark Galeotti, Stephen Martin, Greg Stafford, Jeff Richard, Roderick Robinson, Lawrence Whitaker\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Additional Contributions: Shannon Appelcline, David Cake, Dave Camoirano, John Carnahan, Melissa Camoirano, Charles Corrigan, David Dunham, Alex Ferguson, James Frusetta, Phil Hibbs, Simon D. Hibbs, Jeff Kyer, Martin Laurie, Mark Leymaster, Julian Lord, Rick Meints, Peter Metcalfe, Peter Nordstrand, Wesley Quadros, Mikael Raaterova, Jamie Revell, Graham Robinson, Jonas Schi\u246?tt, Gary Sturgess, Ian Thomson, Nils Weinander\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Development of this version: Ian Cooper\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Development Assistance for this version: Jonathan Laufersweiler, Jeff Richard\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Proof Reading of this version: Martin Helsdon\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 1. Introduction\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i QuestWorlds} is a roleplaying rules engine suitable for you to play in any genre.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is a traditional roleplaying game in that there is a GM and players. The players play characters, each guided by the internal thoughts of their character as to what decisions they make, and the GM plays the world, including non-player characters (NPCs) and abstract threats.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It features an abstract, conflict-based, resolution method and scalable, customizable, character descriptions. Designed to emulate the way characters in fiction face and overcome challenges, it is suitable for a wide variety of genres and play styles.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is a rules-light system that facilitates beginning play easily, and resolving conflicts in play quickly.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We refer to a rules-light but traditional role-playing game as a storytelling game, after Greg Stafford\u8217's definition in {\i Prince Valiant}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 1.1 Why QuestWorlds?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i QuestWorlds} is meant to facilitate your creativity, and then to get out of your way.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is well suited to a collaborative, friendly group with a high degree of trust in each other\u8217's creativity. Characters in {\i QuestWorlds} are described more in terms of their place in your imagination and the game setting than by game mechanics.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your group are often at odds and rely on their chosen rules kit as an arbiter between competing visions of how the game ought to develop, or use mechanical options to decide \u8220"what action to take,\u8221" {\i QuestWorlds} is not a rules set that provides that structure. Make sure to discuss with your group whether you are collectively on board with trying a new play style dynamic, or if you would rather stick to more structured systems.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 1.2 Version\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The first version of these rules {\i Hero Wars} was published in 2000 (ISBN 978-1-929052-01-1)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The second version {\i HeroQuest} was published in 2003 (ISBN 978-1-929052-12-7). We refer to this as {\i HeroQuest} 1e to disambiguate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The third version {\i HeroQuest}: Core Rules was published in 2009 (ISBN 978-0-977785-32-2). We refer to this as {\i HeroQuest} 2e.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i HeroQuest} Glorantha was published in 2015 (ISBN 978-1-943223-01-5). It is the version of the rules in {\i HeroQuest} 2e, presented for playing in Glorantha. We refer to this as {\i HeroQuest} 2.1e.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i QuestWorlds} was published as a System Reference Document (SRD) (this document) in 2018. The version of the rules here is slightly updated, mainly to clarify ambiguities, from the version presented in {\i HeroQuest} 2e and {\i HeroQuest} 2.1e. This makes this ruleset {\i HeroQuest} 2.2e, despite the name change. However, to simplify we identify this version as {\i QuestWorlds} 1e.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An Appendix lists changes in this version. As the SRD is updated we will continue to track version changes there.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 1.3 Basic & Advanced Mechanics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As the {\i QuestWorlds} engine is oriented towards rules-light play, we designate some mechanics as \u8220"Basic\u8221" and others as \u8220"Advanced.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Basic rules represent the minimum mechanical structure you need to play a game with the feel of {\i QuestWorlds}, while advanced rules add mechanical depth to areas of play which you might wish to emphasize, though possibly at a cost in speed of play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In this document, we put advanced mechanics in their own section from the relevant basic mechanic section.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The advanced mechanics can be added to play individually; you do not have to bring them in together. In cases where an optional mechanic depends upon or interrelates with another optional mechanic, we note that in the text.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If this is your first time reading these rules, you may wish to skip over these sections. Return to them once you understand the basic mechanics. Similarly, if this is your first time playing these rules, you may wish to omit the advanced rules at first, getting a feel for the game in its simplest form, and then add them in as you want more depth. Your GM may even decide to employ certain advanced rules on a case by case basis, providing more detail or nuance to particularly interesting conflicts where beneficial, while otherwise taking a lighter approach.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Who Is This Document For?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The primary audience for this document is game-designers who wish to utilize the {\i QuestWorlds} rules framework to implement their own game.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We also recognize that some people will use this document to learn about the {\i QuestWorlds} system before purchasing it, and some players in games were the GM has a rule book, may use this as a reference to help understand the rules.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For that latter reason, we address the rules here to a player.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 However, this remains a technical document with few examples, advice, or other non-rules text to help you play your game, as such are beyond the scope of this System Reference Document.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is expected that the designers of games you play based on these rules will include such guidance and context as is relevant to their game\u8217's particular genre or setting, presented in a format better suited for learning how to play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 1.4 Numbering\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sections within this document are numbered. This is for the benefit of game designers and reviewers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This does not imply that game designers need number the rules in their own games.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Numbering however makes it easy to refer to rules in this document when page numbers may vary by presentation format for the purposes of error trapping or tracking changes. If you need to give us feedback about this document, that will assist us.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 1.5 Participants\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 1.5.1 Players\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You and your fellow players each create a Player Character (PC) to be the \u8220"avatar\u8221" or \u8220"persona\u8221" whose role you will play in the game. The PCs pursue various goals in an imaginary world, using their {\b abilities}, motivations, connections, and more to solve problems and overcome {\b story obstacles} that stand in their way.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When we say \u8216'you\u8217' in this document we may mean the player or their PC. Which should be clear from context, or explicitly noted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 1.5.2 Game Master\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your Game Master (GM) is the interface between your imagination and the game-world in which the PCs have their adventures; describing the people, places, creatures, objects, and events therein. Your GM also plays the role of any Non-Player Characters (NPCs) with whom your PC interacts in the course of your adventures.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We generally refer to the GM as \u8216'your GM\u8217' in this document\u8217's player-facing language. However, if you are the GM for a given game, this naturally refers to you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 2. Mechanics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In a {\i QuestWorlds} game, stories develop dynamically as you and your GM work together to role-play the dramatic conflict between your group\u8217's PCs using in pursuit of their goals and the challenges, or threats that your GM presents to stand in your way. Stories advance by two methods: conflict, where your PC is prevented from achieving their goals because there is something that must be overcome, a {\b story obstacle}, to gain a desired person, thing, or even status: the {\b prize}; or revelation, where something must be overcome, a {\b story obstacle}, to learn a secret, uncover the past, or reach understanding: the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Over the course of play, your GM will present various {\b story obstacles} as conflicts to the PCs, resulting in either {\b victory} or {\b defeat} for your character, which determines whether or not you gain the {\b prize} you sought. These conflicts can represent any sort of challenge you might face: fighting, a trial or debate, survival in a harsh environment, out-wooing rival suitors, and so on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rather than mechanically addressing the individual tasks that make up these conflicts, {\i QuestWorlds} usually assesses your overall {\b victory} or {\b defeat} in a single {\b contest} where you and your GM make an opposed roll pitting your characters {\b ability} vs the {\b resistance} the {\b story obstacle} presents to you achieving the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Whenever the GM presents a {\b story obstacle} for you to overcome, you should {\b frame the contest} by describing what you are trying to accomplish, the {\b prize}, and which of your {\b abilities} (see below) you want to use to achieve that {\b prize}, and how.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Based on that {\b framing} and other factors, your GM will asses what {\b resistance} the characters face.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You roll a twenty-sided die (D20) against your PC\u8217's {\b ability}, and your GM rolls a D20 against the {\b resistance}. Your GM will assess your overall {\b victory} or {\b defeat} in the contest based on the {\b success} or {\b failure} of both rolls, and narrates the results of your attempt to overcome the {\b story obstacle} and gain the {\b prize} accordingly. The direction of the story changes, in either a big or small way, depending on whether you gain the {\b prize} or not.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We encourage your GM to work with your suggestions when narrating the {\b victory} or {\b defeat}, but the final decision rests with them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 2.1 Abilities\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Characters in {\i QuestWorlds} are defined by the {\b abilities} they use to face the challenges that arise in the course of their story. Rather than having a standard list of attributes, skills, powers, etc. for all characters, anything that you can apply to solve a problem or overcome a {\b story obstacle} could be one of your {\b abilities}. While your GM may provide some example {\b abilities} to choose from that connect your PC to a particular story or game world (whether created by your GM or by the designer of a particular game), you get to make up and describe most or all of your {\b abilities}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some {\b abilities} might be broad descriptions of your background or expertise, like \u8220"Dwarf of the Chalk Hills\u8221" or \u8220"Private Detective\u8221" - implying a variety of related capabilities. Others might represent specific capabilities or assets such as \u8220"Lore of the Ancients,\u8221" \u8220"Captain of the Fencing Team,\u8221" or \u8220"The Jade Eye Medallion.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Ultimately, {\b abilities} are just names for the interesting things your character can do.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.1.2 Ratings and Masteries\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i QuestWorlds} {\b abilities} are {\b rated} on a range of 1\u8211-20, representing the {\b target number} you need to roll or less to succeed on your roll during a {\b contest} (see \u167?2.3 for more details). {\b Ratings} are also scalable beyond that range using tiers of capability we refer to as {\b Mastery}. When you raise a {\b rating} of 20 by one point, either permanently through character advancement or a temporarily with {\b modifier} to a contest roll, the {\b rating} increases not to 21, but to 1M.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The \u8220"M\u8221" after the {\b rating} signifies {\b mastery}. You have now reached a new order of excellence in that {\b ability}, such that your die rolls will almost always succeed. Unless opposed by similarly exalted {\b resistance} (see \u167?2.3.5.2 for more details) the number in front of the M is now the {\b target number} you seek to roll or less to achieve a {\b critical}!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As a {\b rating} climbs, you may even gain multiple {\b masteries} in it. {\b Mastery} tiers above one (representing an overall {\b rating} or 41 or more) are marked with a number to the right of the M symbol. Each successive {\b rating} increase over 20 becomes a new {\b mastery} tier. Thus, if you have 10M2, you have two {\b masteries} (representing a total {\b rating} of 50, 10+20+20). 10M3 means that you have three {\b masteries}, and so on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Specific {\i QuestWorlds} games or genre packs may use other symbols relevant to their setting or genre to denote {\b mastery} instead of M. If so, this should be clearly noted by their designers.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In summary, to reflect abilities (or {\b resistance}s), higher than 20, you divide the {\b ability} by 20, noting a {\b mastery} for each multiple of 20 the {\b ability} exceeds, and treating the remainder as the {\b target number}. So, for an {\b ability} of 27, 27 \u247? 20 = 1 remainder 7, which translates into a {\b rating} of seven with one {\b mastery} written as \u8220"7M\u8221"; while for an {\b ability} of 43, 43 \u247? 20 = 2 remainder 3, which translates into a {\b rating} of three with two {\b masteries}, written as \u8220"3M2\u8221" on the character sheet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.1.2.1 No Relevant {\b ability}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may sometimes be faced with a {\b story obstacle} for which you have no relevant {\b ability} whatsoever. In such cases, you may still enter into conflict with the {\b story obstacle} using a minimum base {\b target number} of 6 for your {\b contest} roll. Like {\b ratings}, it may also be subject to {\b modifiers}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.1.2.2 Making Ratings Quantitative\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 While {\i QuestWorlds} generally treats {\b ratings} as abstract measures of problem solving power rather than quantitive measures of in-fiction traits, some games may also depart from this practice in order to more closely couple key fictional elements to the mechanics. For example, a magic system might classify certain supernatural effects as Apprentice, Journeyman, or Master level, and require {\b ratings} of 15, 5M, or 1M2 (respectively) in a relevant {\b ability} to even attempt them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Such departures from abstraction should generally only be made where the increased complexity they bring leads to rewarding choices in a key area of interest to the setting or genre at hand. In most cases, you and your GM can simply follow the fiction surrounding your {\b ability} and its context within the setting for guidance as to what applications of the {\b ability} are credible.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.1.3 Possessions and Equipment\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your character will generally be considered to have whatever equipment is reasonably implied by your abilities. Having an \u8220"Athenian Hoplite\u8221" {\b ability} will mean that your character possesses bronze armor, a shield, a spear, and a short-sword; while a \u8220"Country Doctor\u8221" would be expected to have a well-stocked medical-bag and possibly a horse & buggy in the right setting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 However, if you wish your character to possess something that is particularly special, interesting, or unusual, you may also enumerate it as a rated {\b ability} in its own right, just like any other {\b ability} your character might use to solve a problem.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In play, the degree to which you can overcome {\b story obstacles} with your possessions depends not on any qualities inherent to the objects themselves, but to the {\b rating} of your relevant {\b ability}. However the significance of various sorts of gear lies in the types of actions you can credibly propose, and what their impact might reasonably be. An \u8220"Invisibility Cloak\u8221" {\b ability} implies very different fictional capabilities than \u8220"Souped-up Muscle Car\u8221" does.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Conversely, if in the course of play you find your character in a situation without equipment essential to utilize an ability effectively, or where your character\u8217's gear is poorly suited to the task at hand, your GM may take into account in assessing credibility-based {\b modifiers}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.1.4 Wealth\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In {\i QuestWorlds}, wealth is treated as just another way to overcome {\b story obstacles}. Many characters may not even have an explicit wealth {\b ability}, with their wealth or assets instead implied by {\b abilities} representing their background, profession, or status. Whether explicit or implied, the relevant {\b rating} is not an objective measure of the size of your fortune, but instead indicates how well you solve problems with money and resources.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Similarly, treasures and other windfalls that arise during play may be represented in the rules via {\b plot augments} (see \u167? 2.4.3) in {\b contests} where using the resource is relevant.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 2.2 Hero Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You start the game with a pool of three {\b hero points}, and gain three more of them at the beginning of every subsequent session. These are a precious resource, as they are used both to {\b boost} your {\b contest results}, and to improve your {\b abilities} over the long term.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any {\b hero points} not spent on {\b boosting contest results} or improving your character do not carry over to the next session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 2.3 Contest Procedure\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You choose an {\b ability} relevant to the conflict at hand, describe exactly what you are trying to accomplish, and how. Your GM may modify these suggested actions to better fit the fictional circumstances, and describe the actions of the NPCs or forces on the other side of the conflict.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.3.1 Resolution Methods\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Basic resolution methods are as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.1.1 Automatic Victory\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Sometimes, your GM may not call for a {\b contest} at all, in which case you are simply victorious in overcoming the {\b story obstacle} at hand. This may be because {\b defeat} in the conflict to overcome the {\b story obstacle} would lead to uninteresting results or a narrative dead-end, such as when finding an important clue is essential to the progress of an adventure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM might also do this in cases where, within the fictional context, the particular {\b ability} you have brought to bear on the {\b story obstacle} is such that overcoming the {\b story obstacle} should be a trivial matter under normal circumstances (e.g. - a professional hunter bringing in the evening meal in a forest filled with game animals). In such cases, {\b defeat} would simply not be credible unless your GM wanted to introduce some further complications to the story. Generally, your GM will only use {\b automatic victory} when you have a relevant {\b ability} to justify its application.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For cases where overall {\b victory} may be a given, but the degree, timeliness, or cost of that {\b victory} may be interesting concerns, consider the Advanced rules in \u167?2.19.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.1.2 Simple Contest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The {\b simple contest} {\i QuestWorlds}\u8217' primary resolution mechanic for overcoming {\b story obstacles}, and is used the most often. It also provides the foundation for other types of {\b contest}, including several Advanced ones. As such, it receives both an overview of key concepts here as well as a more detailed treatment in \u167?4.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 At is most basic, a {\b simple contest} can be summarized as follows:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab You and your GM agree upon the terms of the {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab You roll a D20 vs your relevant {\b ability}, while your GM rolls a D20 vs the {\b resistance}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Your GM compares the {\b success} or {\b failure} of the two rolls, and assesses your overall {\b victory} or {\b defeat}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Your GM then narrates the {\b outcome} of the conflict as appropriate.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you enter into conflict with another player rather than a {\b story obstacle} presented by your GM, you both roll your relevant abilities for the {\b contest} instead of against a GM-set {\b resistance}, and your GM interprets the {\b results}, as described above.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.3.2 Framing the Contest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.2.1 Contest Framing Overview\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When a conflict arises during the game, you and your GM start by clearly agreeing on:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab What goal you are trying to achieve. We call this the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab What the {\b story obstacle} is you are trying to overcome.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab What {\b tactic} you are using to and overcome it.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This process is called {\b framing the contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.2.2 Conflict: Goals vs Obstacles\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Contests} in {\i QuestWorlds} don\u8217't simply tell you how well you performed at a particular task: they tell you whether or not you overcame a {\b story obstacle}, which moves the story in a new direction. Unlike some other role-playing games, a {\b contest} in {\i QuestWorlds} does not resolve a task, it resolves the whole {\b story obstacle}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you need secret records which are stored in a vault within a government compound, your goal is to get the information - while the fact that it is secured against your access is a {\b story obstacle} you must overcome to attain that goal. Overcoming that {\b story obstacle} may involve many possible tasks, evading guards, lock-picking, forging credentials, etc. - but the {\b contest} doesn\u8217't address those individually. The {\b contest} is framed around the entire conflict against the {\b story obstacle} as a whole.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In a fight, your {\b story obstacle} may be the opponents themselves, who you are fighting to capture or kill. Just as often you are seeking another goal and you might just as easily attain it by incapacitating or evading your foes. In this case, beating the enemy is a task, not the {\b story obstacle}. For example, if an {\b ally} has been accused of treason by the King, your goal could be to prove the {\b ally}\u8217's innocence. The power of the King threatening your {\b ally} is an {\b story obstacle} to be overcome, and a trial by combat could be a {\b contest} to resolve the conflict with an {\b ability} like \u8220"Knight Errant.\u8221"\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In a court trial, your goal is likely a particular verdict, while the {\b story obstacle} might be the opposing lawyer, an unjust law, or even the justice system itself. In this case, jury selection, a closing argument, revelatory evidence, or legal procedural challenges are tasks, not the entire {\b story obstacle}. The overall conflict encompasses all those things.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A conflict to overcome a {\b story obstacle} moves the story forward when it is resolved. If it is merely a step toward resolving a {\b story obstacle} it is a task and not a conflict. While those component tasks may be interesting parts of narrating {\b tactics} and {\b results}, your GM should be sure to look for the {\b story obstacle} in conflict when framing a {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If there is no {\b story obstacle} to your actions, your GM should not call for a {\b contest} but simply let you narrate what you do, provided that seems credible.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, you are traveling from one star system to another. In the next star system you hope to confront the aged rebel who holds long-forgotten secrets that could bring freedom to the galaxy. Your GM feels there is no useful {\b story obstacle} for you to {\b contest} against, and so lets you describe heading down to the spaceport to secure a ship, meeting the captain and crew of your vessel, and traveling to the next world. Your GM encourages you to summarize what happens quickly so you can get to the meeting with the old rebel. Your GM knows that will be the real {\b story obstacle}, convincing the old rebel to part with their secrets.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.2.3 Tactics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You either choose an {\b ability} that represents any \u8216'key moment\u8217' in overcoming that {\b story obstacle}, or a broad {\b ability} that lets you overcome the whole {\b story obstacle}. We call this choosing a {\b tactic}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your {\b tactic} might describe your using an {\b ability} that helps you overcome a task within the {\b story obstacle}: sneaking past the guards, picking the locks, choosing the right jury or skewering your opponent with your foil. Or, your {\b tactics} might describe using a broad ability like \u8220"Ninja\u8221", \u8220"Lawyer\u8221", or \u8220"Fencer\u8221" to overcome all those challenges that might form part of the {\b story obstacle}. Either way, if you succeed at that roll, you overcome the whole {\b story obstacle}. Or by failing at that roll, you fail to overcome the {\b story obstacle}, not just fail at one task.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When deciding on your {\b tactic}, focus on how your unique abilities would help you overcome the {\b story obstacle}. This as the \u8220"key moment\u8221" where we focus on your PC. Use this moment to reveal your PC\u8217's strengths to the group.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM will determine if your {\b tactic} passes a {\b credibility test}. If you try to jump a 100 meters or run faster than a speeding car, your action is not credible and your GM will ask you to choose a different {\b tactic}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Credibility depends on the genre, as what is not credible in a gritty police procedural might be in pulp where you might be able to leap from a bridge onto a speeding train. If in dispute, your GM should discuss with the group whether they consider your {\b tactic} credible for the genre.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extraordinary abilities} in some genres give you the capability to do the incredible. For example in a superhero genre you might fly or be invulnerable to bullets, in a fantasy genre hurl magical lightning bolts. A genre pack for the game should help define what incredible {\b tactics} are allowed for that game as part of an {\i Extraordinary Powers Framework}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The GM can narrate the remaining tasks that make sense of the story depending on your {\b success} with that roll, or have them occur \u8216'off-stage\u8217' for speed. Think of the way TV or Cinema often cuts to the key moment of drama in a break-in, over showing us the whole heist from beginning to end.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.2.4 No Repeat Attempts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b contest} represents all of your attempts to overcome a {\b story obstacle}. If your lose it means that no matter how many times you tried to solve the problem, you finally had to give up. You can try again only if you use a new {\b tactic} to overcome the {\b story obstacle}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.3.3 Resistance\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM chooses a {\b resistance} to represent the difficulty of the {\b story obstacle}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When setting {\b resistance}s it is important to understand that whilst traditional roleplaying games simulate an imaginary reality, {\i QuestWorlds} emulates the techniques of fictional storytelling.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Understanding this distinction will help you to play the game in a natural, seamless manner.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 For example, let\u8217's say that your GM is playing a game inspired by fast-paced, non-fantastic, martial arts movies in a contemporary setting. You are running along a bridge, pacing a hovercraft, piloted by the main bad guy. You want your character, Joey Chun, to jump onto the hovercraft and punch the villain\u8217's lights out.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In a traditional, simulative game, your GM would determine how hard this is based on the physical constraints you\u8217've already described. In doing so, they would come up with imaginary numbers and measurements. Your GM would have to work out the distance between bridge and hovercraft. Depending on the rules set, they might take into account your relative speed to the vehicle. Then they would use whatever resolution mechanic the rules provide them with to see if Joey succeeds or fails. If you blow it, your GM will probably consult the falling rules to see how badly you injure yourself (if you land poorly), or the drowning rules, if you end up in the river.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In {\i QuestWorlds}, your GM starts not with the physical details, but with the proposed action\u8217's position in the storyline. They consider a range of narrative factors, from how entertaining it would be for you to {\b succeed}, how much {\b failure} would slow the pacing of the current sequence, and how long it has been since you last scored a thrilling {\b victory}. If, after this, they need further reference points, your GM can draw inspiration more from martial arts movies than the physics of real-life jumps from bridges onto moving hovercraft. Having decided how difficult the task ought to be dramatically,your GM will then supply the physical details as color, to justify their choice and create suspension of disbelief, the illusion of authenticity that makes us accept fictional incidents as credible on their own terms. If they want Joey to have a high chance of {\b success}, your GM describes the distance between bridge and vehicle as impressive (so it feels exciting if you make it) but not insurmountable (so it seems believable if you make it).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In other words, in {\i QuestWorlds} your GM will pick a {\b resistance} based on dramatic needs and then justify it by adding details into the story.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Resistance} numbers are derived from a {\b base resistance}, which is modified according to the {\b resistance class}, as per the following table:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 RESISTANCE CLASS TABLE\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Class\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Value\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Nearly Impossible\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base +M2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very High\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base +M\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 High\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Moderate\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Low\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base -6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Very Low\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Base -M or 6, whichever is lower\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 By default, the {\b base resistance} starts at 14.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All {\b contests} use the base number + {\b resistance class}, except for {\b contests} to determine {\b augments}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Augmenting} always faces a {\b moderate resistance}, this is always the unmodified base value.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.3.4 Die Rolls\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To determine how well you use an {\b ability}, roll a 20-sided die (d20). At the same time, your GM rolls for the {\b resistance}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Compare your rolled number with the {\b TN} to determine the {\b result}, a level of {\b success} or {\b failure} for the roll (not the {\b contest} as a whole).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Critical}: If the die roll is 1 (even when the {\b TN} is 1), you succeed brilliantly. This is the best {\b result} possible.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Success}: If the die roll is greater than 1 and less than or equal to the {\b TN}, you succeed, but there is nothing remarkable about the success.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Failure}: If the die roll is greater than the {\b TN} but not 20, you fail. Things do not happen as hoped.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab {\b Fumble}: If the die roll is 20, you fumble (even when the {\b TN} is 20). You fail miserably. This is the worst {\b result} possible.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Note that whatever your {\b result} the {\b outcome} will depend on comparing your roll with your opponents. So you might *{\b succeed}, but still lose the {\b prize}. At the same time, your GM should take into account your {\b result} when narrating the {\b outcome}, and not use your incompetence as a reason you failed to gain the {\b prize} if you succeeded, instead focusing on the {\b resistance}\u8217's superiority despite your {\b success}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.3.5 Outcome\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your roll and that of your GM\u8217's roll are compared to determine your overall {\b outcome} which will be either {\b victory} or {\b defeat} for the {\b contest} as a whole.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have a better {\b result} than the GM, then you have a {\b victory} and you gain the {\b prize} set out when the {\b contest} was framed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have a worse {\b result}, then you are {\b defeated} and do not gain the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you both have the same {\b result}, the better roll wins.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your rolls tie, then it is a standoff.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b critical} is a better result than a {\b success} which is, in turn, a better result than a {\b failure}, which is a better result than a {\b fumble}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM describes what happens, based on their interpretation of the {\b outcome}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.5.1 Better Roll\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\i QuestWorlds} supports two options for the \u8220"better roll\u8221": the highest roll, or the lowest roll. Some groups prefer lowest roll, some higher. The preference toward \u8220"low is better\u8221", is often because 1 is a {\b critical} and 20 a {\b fumble}, and toward \u8220"high is better\u8221" because the winner has rolled a higher number. Groups wanting higher abilities to win out slightly more often should use higher roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We also use the phrase \u8220"worse roll\u8221" to indicate the losing roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.5.2 Confusing Ties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM will describe most tied {\b outcomes} as inconclusive standoffs, in which neither of you gets what you wanted.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In some situations, ties become difficult to visualize. Chief among these are {\b contest}s with binary {\b outcomes}, where only two possible results are conceivable.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM can either change the situation on such a tie, introducing a new element that likely renders the original {\b prize} irrelevant to both participants, or they can resolve the ties in your favor as a {\b marginal victory}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.5.3 Bumps\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b bump} affects the degree of {\b success} or {\b failure} of your die roll. A {\b bump} up improves your {\b result} by one step, changing a {\b fumble} to a {\b failure}, a {\b failure} to a {\b success}, or a {\b success} to a {\b critical}. {\b Bump} ups come from two sources: {\b masteries} and {\b hero points} (applied in that order). A {\b bump} down reduces {\b result} by one step, changing a {\b critical} to a {\b success}, a {\b success} to a {\b failure}, or a {\b failure} to a {\b fumble}. {\b Bump} downs come from one source: {\b masteries}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bumps} always affect {\b results} not {\b outcomes}, although the outcome could change as a effect of gaining a different {\b result}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.5.4 Bump Up with Mastery\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you\u8217're engaged in a {\b contest} against a {\b resistance}, and you have an {\b ability} of 10M versus a {\b resistance} of 10, you enjoy an advantage. You get a {\b bump} to your die roll from that {\b mastery}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You get one {\b bump} up for each level of {\b mastery} your PC has greater than your opponent\u8217's. So against a {\b resistance} of 14 a PC\u8217's {\b ability} of 7M is treated as 7 vs.\u160?14 but we {\b bump} the {\b result} one step in the the favor of the PC; a PC\u8217's {\b ability} of 3M2 is treated as 3 vs.\u160?14 but we {\b bump} the {\b result} two steps in favor of the the PC.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This reflects the fact that an {\b ability} above 20 would always succeed on a D20. Because each {\b mastery} represents {\b automatic success} (apart from a {\b fumble}) on a D20, you roll against the remainder, and treat the {\b mastery} as a {\b bump}. So on an {\b ability} of 27 is 7M, which means a {\b target number} of 7 and {\b bump} the {\b result}; an {\b ability} of 43 means 3M2 or a {\b target number} of 3 and {\b bump} the {\b result} twice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Opposed {\b masteries} cancel out, each contestant reducing their {\b rating} by the same number of {\b masteries} until only one or neither of them has {\b masteries}. If you have two {\b masteries}, then you enjoy the same great advantage over an opponent with a single {\b mastery} as someone with one {\b mastery} has over an opponent with no {\b masteries}. If you have an advantage of two or more {\b masteries} over an opponent, you can pretty much count on pounding them into the dust.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This allows {\i QuestWorlds} to represent large differences in ability or {\b resistance}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs24 2.3.5.5 Bump Up with Hero Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can spend a {\b hero point} to {\b bump} up any {\b result} by one step. You may only {\b bump} your own rolls, not those of other PCs or {\b supporting characters}\u8212-with the exception of {\b sidekicks} and {\b retainers}, which, as extensions of your character, you may spend {\b hero points} on. You can decide to use a {\b hero point} for a {\b bump} after the die roll {\b results} are calculated (including any {\b bump} ups from {\b masteries}).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can only spend one {\b hero point} per roll.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 2.4 Augments\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may sometimes face {\b contests} where more than one {\b ability} may be applicable to the conflict at hand. In such cases, you may attempt to use one {\b ability} to give a supporting bonus to the main ability you are using to frame the {\b contest}. This is called an {\b augment}. For example, if your character has the {\b abilities} \u8220"The Queen\u8217's Intelligencer\u8221" and \u8220"Master of Disguise\u8221", you might use the latter to {\b augment} the former when infiltrating a rival nation\u8217's capitol. Similarly, a character with \u8220"Knight Errant\u8221" and \u8220"My Word is my Bond\u8221" {\b abilities} might use one to {\b augment} the other when in conflict with a {\b story obstacle} the character has sworn to overcome.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Abilities that represent special items, weapons, armor, or other noteworthy equipment can be a common source of {\b augments}. However, this grows tired if over-used and you should try and restrict repeated use equipment used in this way to {\b contests} where they are particularly interesting or apropos.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Augments} can also come from other characters\u8217' {\b abilities} if one character uses an {\b ability} to support another\u8217's efforts rather than directly engaging in the {\b contest}. {\b Augments} can even come from outside resources like support from a community, see \u167?8, or other circumstantial help.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have a good idea for an {\b augment}, propose it to your GM while the {\b contest} is being framed. When making your proposal, describe how the {\b augmenting ability} supports the main one in a way that is both {\i entertaining} and {\i memorable}. Don\u8217't just hunt for mechanical advantage, show your group more about your PC when you {\b augment}, their attitudes, passions, or lesser known {\b abilities}. If you are {\b augmenting} with a {\b broad ability} like \u8220"Fool\u8217's Luck\u8221", be prepared to describe the unlikely events that tilt the scales in your favor. Your GM will decide whether the {\b augment} is justified and can refuse boring and uninspired attempts to {\b augment}, where you are just looking for a bonus to your roll and not adding to the story.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may only use one of your own {\b abilities} to {\b augment} the {\b ability} you are using in the {\b contest}, and you may not use an {\b ability} to {\b augment} itself. However, {\b augments} from other players supporting you can add together with your own, along with other {\b modifiers}, including those from {\b benefits of victory} and from {\b plot augments}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you GM accepts your {\b augment} proposal, it will be resolved by one of the methods below. The main {\b contest} then proceeds as normal, with any bonus from the {\b augment} added onto the {\b rating} of the {\b ability} chosen when {\b framing the contest}. The {\b augment} remains in effect for the duration of the {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.4.1 Rolled Augments\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To grant an {\b augment} to yourself, or another PC, in an upcoming {\b contest}, you engage in a {\b simple contest} against a {\b moderate resistance} before the main contest begins to determine whether the {\b augment} attempt results in and advantage. Frame this {\b augment contest} with your GM, making it clear how your supporting {\b ability} will achieve the goal of making your {\b ability} in the main {\b contest} more effective. {\b Augment contests} may not themselves be {\b augmented}, and if your {\b augment} attempt ends in {\b defeat}, you may not make another attempt at an {\b augment} for the main {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are victorious in the {\b augment contest}, your GM will award a bonus of +3 to the {\b ability} used in the main {\b contest}. If your description of how you were using the {\b augmenting ability} was particularly entertaining, your GM may increase the bonus to +6.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you are using the advanced mechanic for {\b degrees of victory or defeat}, use the table below to interpret the {\b outcome} of the {\b simple contest}. Note that {\b penalties} for {\b defeat} when attempting an {\b augment} are much lessened compared to a regular {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 AUGMENT TABLE\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4320\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Contest Outcome\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Modifier\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Complete Victory\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +M\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Major Victory\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +9\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Minor Victory\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +6\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Marginal Victory\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Marginal Defeat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Minor Defeat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Major Defeat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 +0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Complete Defeat\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 -3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.4.2 Quick Augments\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 While an {\b augment contest} before the main {\b contest} can be dramatic and exciting, it does also slow down the flow of play. An alternative approach, called a {\b quick augment}, alleviates this by replacing rolling with a bonus equal to one-fifth of the {\b augmenting rating}. If your GM accepts your proposal for an {\b augment}, simply divide the {\b augmenting ability rating} by five, round down if necessary, and add the modifier as a bonus to your {\b ability} in the upcoming {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 It is at your GM\u8217's discretion whether to roll {\b augments} or use {\b quick augments}. Your GM may choose one preferred approach and use it in every instance, or choose one or the other on a case-by-case basis based on interest and flow of play.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 2.4.3 Plot Augments\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A plot {\b augment} occurs when your GM decides that your {\b victory} over a previous {\b story obstacle} is sufficiently relevant to the {\b contest} at hand as to warrant a bonus much like a supporting {\b ability} can. The previous {\b contest} need not have been immediately prior to the current one, as long as its {\b outcome} remains relevant. The magnitude of a plot {\b augment} can be +3, +6, +9, or +M. The more challenging the previous {\b contest} was and the more relevant that {\b victory} is to the current challenge, the higher the {\b augment}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 3. Character Creation\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The first step in creating your character is to come up with a concept that fits in with the genre of game that your GM intends to run. With that, you can assign {\b abilities}, {\b ratings} for those {\b abilities}, and if required {\b flaws}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In addition, you will want to give your character a name, and provide a physical description. We recommend focusing on three physical things about your PC that others would immediately notice, over anything more detailed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 3.1 As-You-Go Method\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Concept\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The concept is a brief phrase, often just a couple of words that tells the GM and other players what you do and how you act. Start with a noun or phrase indicating your {\b occupation} or area of expertise, and modify it with an adjective suggesting a {\b distinguishing characteristic}, a personality trait that defines you in broad strokes:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab haughty priestess\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab hotshot lawyer\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab nai\u776?ve warrior\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab noble samurai\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab remorseful assassin\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab sardonic ex-mercenary\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab slothful vampire\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Now provide your character with a name.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab If the series uses other {\b keywords}, such as those for culture or religion, you may gain one for free.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab When events in the story put you in a situation where you want to overcome a {\b story obstacle}, make up an applicable {\b ability} on the spot. The first time you use an {\b ability} (including the two you start play with), assign a {\b rating} to it. This may be a {\b breakout ability} from a {\b keyword}. You are restricted to only one {\b sidekick}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab If you want, describe {\b flaws}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Once you have 12 {\b abilities} (including the two for character concept), and up to three {\b flaws} you are done creating your character.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 3.2 Assigning Ability Ratings\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You have now defined your {\b abilities}. These tell everyone what you can do. Now assign numbers to each {\b ability}, called {\b ratings}, which determine how well you can do these things.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Assign a starting {\b rating} of 17 to the {\b ability} you find most important or defining. Although most players consider it wisest to assign this {\b rating} to their {\b occupation}, which is usually a {\b keyword}, you don\u8217't have to do this. Assign a {\b rating} of 17 to your {\b distinguishing characteristic}. In some cases, you may treat your {\b distinguishing characteristic} as a {\b breakout ability} from a {\b keyword} in this case, treat it as a +4.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 All other {\b abilities} start at a {\b rating} of 13.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Now spend up to 20 points to increase any of your various {\b ratings}, including {\b keywords}. Each point spent increases a {\b rating} by 1 point. You can\u8217't spend more than 10 points on any one {\b ability}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Some genre packs may require you to have additional {\b keywords} that reflect the setting. These additional {\b keywords} come from the 12 {\b ability} allowance, so in many genres you will have fewer wildcard {\b abilities} but better fit the setting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 3.3 Keywords\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may build your PC around one or more {\b keywords}. A {\b keyword} gives you a package deal: you get a number of {\b abilities} by selecting a pre-existing character concept, which the player then modifies.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Keywords} are best suited for use as the PC\u8217's {\b occupation}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In certain genres, you may require multiple {\b keywords}: for example, one for {\b occupation}, another for species or culture, and perhaps a third for religious affiliation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Here are two ways to handle {\b keywords}. If in doubt, choose Umbrella.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Keywords as Packages}: Treat {\b keywords} simply as shorthand for a package of {\b abilities}. These can be increased together during character creation, but are too unrelated to increase together during a game. You are still free to use the {\b keyword} as an {\b ability}, and in fact may prefer to write only the specific {\b abilities} they\u8217've improved on their character sheet.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Keywords as an Umbrella}: Treat {\b keywords} both as raisable {\b abilities} and as a collection of more specific {\b abilities}. This approach keeps the character sheet from getting too cluttered but encourages specialization. If your character is particularly good at an aspect of that keyword, you create a {\b breakout ability} under the {\b keyword} at a {\b bonus} from the {\b rating} of the {\b keyword} you write these specialized {\b breakout abilities} under the {\b keyword}, along with how much they\u8217've improved from the {\b keyword}:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Detective 17 Forensics +2 Handgun +1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In this example, whilst the {\b rating} for most {\b contests} in which Detective was an appropriate {\b tactic} would be 17, for contests involving Forensics it would be 19, and for those involving firing a handgun it would be 18.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In some settings, an {\b ability} may be listed in more than one of a PC\u8217's {\b keywords}. Choose only one to detail it under.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 3.3 Flaws\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may assign up to three {\b flaws} to their PC. Common flaws include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Personality traits: surly, petty, compulsive.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Physical challenges: blindness, lameness, diabetes.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Social hurdles: outcast, ill-mannered, hated by United supporters.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Flaws} are assigned a {\b rating} equivalent to your {\b abilities}. The first {\b flaw} is rated at the highest {\b ability}, the second shares the same {\b rating} as the second-highest {\b ability}, and the third equals the lowest {\b ability}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Certain {\b keywords} include {\b flaws}. {\b Flaws} gained through {\b keywords} do not count against the limit of three chosen {\b flaws}. All {\b flaws} after the third are given the same {\b rating} as the third {\b ability}. You may designate {\b flaws} from {\b keywords} as your first or second-ranked {\b flaw}. When {\b flaws} manifest during play, your GM places you in a {\b contest} against them, and rolls their associated {\b ratings} as {\b resistances} to your efforts. This method applies to {\b flaws} that primarily present you with additional {\b story obstacles} to overcome.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM may decide during play that certain {\b flaws} are better expressed as {\b penalties} to your attempts to overcome other {\b resistances}. Divide the value by 5 and round (a {\b flaw} of 19 imposes a \u8211-4 {\b penalty}). This is appropriate where the player specifies that your {\b ability} to solve problems drops under certain specific conditions. Examples might include:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Tongue-tied in large gatherings.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Lousy with a stick shift.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Can\u8217't stand snakes.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 4. Simple Contests\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Simple contest}s are the default resolution method for all {\b story obstacles}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 4.1 Simple Contest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 4.1.1 Procedure\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Your GM {\b frames the contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab You choose a {\b tactic}, and figure your PC\u8217's {\b target number} ({\b TN}) using the {\b rating} and any {\b modifiers}. The PCs {\b TN} is the {\b rating} of their {\b ability}, plus or minus {\b modifiers} the GM may give you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Your GM determines the {\b resistance}. If two PCs contend, your opponent figures their {\b TN} as described in step 2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Roll a d20 to determine your {\b success or failure}, then apply any {\b bumps}. Your GM does the same for the {\b resistance}. Compare your rolled number with your {\b TN} to see how well you succeeded or failed with your {\b ability}. Remember to apply any {\b bumps} from {\b masteries} or {\b hero points}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Determine {\b victory} or {\b defeat}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Describe the {\b outcome} based on the {\b story obstacle}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 4.2 Group Simple Contest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In the {\b group simple contest}, multiple participants take part in a {\b simple contest}. Each of you in your group conducts an individual {\b simple contest} against the GM, and the {\b outcomes} for each side are collated to determine the victor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b group simple contest} may pit all of you against a single {\b resistance}, representing one {\b story obstacle}. Alternatively, a {\b group simple contest} may be a series of paired match-ups between two groups of contestants. If you are forced to participate in more than one {\b contest}, then you face the standard multiple opponent {\b penalties}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 4.2.1 Procedure\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Your GM {\b frames the contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab You choose a {\b tactic}, and figure your PC\u8217's {\b target number} ({\b TN}) using the {\b rating} and any {\b modifiers}. Your {\b TN} is the {\b rating} of their {\b ability}, plus or minus {\b modifiers} the GM may give you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Your GM determines the {\b resistance}. If two PCs contend, your opponent figures their {\b TN} as described in step 2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab For each of your group, roll a d20 to determine your {\b success or failure}, then apply any {\b bumps}. Your GM does the same for the {\b resistance}. Compare your rolled number with your {\b TN} to see how well you succeeded or failed with your {\b ability}. Remember to apply any {\b bumps} from {\b masteries} or {\b hero points}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Determine the number of {\b Outcome Points (OPs)} scored by the victor in the {\b contest} from the {\b group simple contest} table. On a tie the {\b victory} goes to the {\b better roll}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 6.\tx360\tab Sum the {\b OPs} gained for each side.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 7.\tx360\tab The side with the highest number of {\b OPs} is the victor in the {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 8.\tx360\tab Describe the {\b outcome} based on the agreed {\b prize}.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 4.2.2 Group Simple Contest Resource Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 GROUP SIMPLE CONTEST TABLE\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1728\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3456\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5184\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6912\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Critical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Success\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Failure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fumble\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Critical\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Success\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Failure\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 1\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx1728\cellx3456\cellx5184\cellx6912\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 Fumble\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 5\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 3\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 2\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \qc \f0 \sa0 \li0 \fi0 0\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 6. Relationships\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Abilities may represent your relationship to NPCs.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 6.1 Supporting Characters\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Many relationships connect you to NPCs controlled by the GM.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you try to use one of these relationships to solve a problem, your {\b tactic} is your relationship {\b ability}. You can\u8217't simply go to the {\b supporting character} you have a relationship with, stick them with the problem, and expect to see it solved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you succeeds, the {\b supporting character} helps you solve the problem. If you fail, they don\u8217't. As with any {\b ability}, you must still specify how the NPC goes about overcoming the {\b story obstacle}. Calls on relationships are almost always {\b simple contests}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In crucial situations, it may seem dramatically inappropriate for you to solve a problem indirectly, by working through others. Your GM can expose the {\b supporting character} to serious risk. If the character dies or otherwise suffers a change of status that renders them useless to you, you permanently lose the relationship {\b ability}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Before putting {\b supporting characters} at serious risk, your GM should make sure the players understand the magnitude of the possible consequences.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When {\b supporting characters} undertake significant risk, the {\b supporting character} may suffer a {\b consequence of defeat} commensurate with the level of the {\b defeat} in the {\b contest}. Or it may simply be your relationship that is damaged or destroyed.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 6.2 Allies\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An {\b ally} is a character of roughly the same level of accomplishment as you, often in the same or a similar line of work. For every favor you ask of them they\u8217'll ask one of you. These reciprocal favors will be roughly equivalent in terms of risk, time commitment, resistance class, and inconvenience.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 6.3 Patrons\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Patrons} enjoy greater access to assets than you, either through personal ownership (as in a Merchant Prince) or authority (as in the governor of a province). They may lend you advice or provide them with assets but are too busy and important to personally perform tasks for you. They may hire you to do jobs, or issue orders within a command structure to which you both belong.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you roll your {\b patron} relationship, your GM adjusts the resistance class depending on what you have done for them lately.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 6.4 Contacts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b contact} is a specialist in an {\b occupation}, skill, or area of expertise. {\b Contacts} provide your information and perform minor favors, but will expect information or small favors from you in return.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can describe a {\b contact} as being a particular individual, or as a group of similar individuals.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 6.4.1 Occupational Contacts\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Any {\b occupational keyword} can be treated as a source of {\b contacts}. However, using an {\b occupational keyword} as a source of {\b contacts} will always be a {\b stretch}. To more reliably draw on particular {\b contacts} associated with your occupation, you should take an explicit ability. Use a {\b breakout ability} if you are using {\b umbrella keywords}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 6.5 Followers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b follower} is a {\b supporting character} that travels with you and contributes on a regular basis to your success.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There are two types of followers: {\b sidekicks} and {\b retainers}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Followers} need not be people, or even sentient beings: you can write up a spirit guardian, trusty robot, or companion animal as a {\b follower}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 6.5.1 Sidekick\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b sidekick} is a {\b supporting character} under your control. Most of the time they stays at your side to render assistance, but they can also go off and perform errands or missions on their own.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You should give your {\b sidekick} a name. You should, when asked, explain how the {\b sidekick} came to be your {\b follower}, and why they continue in that role.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sidekicks} start with three {\b abilities}, one rated at 16 and the others at 13. Any of these {\b abilities} may be a {\b keyword}. At least one of them should indicate a {\b distinguishing characteristic}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If the sidekick is nonhuman or a member of an unusual culture, one of its three starting {\b abilities} must be its species or culture {\b keyword}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once you have determined the {\b sidekick\u8217's} base {\b abilities}, they allocate 15 additional points between three of them, spending no more than 10 on any one {\b ability}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You can improve these {\b abilities} through the expenditure of {\b hero points}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may use any of your {\b sidekick\u8217's abilities} as your own. The {\b sidekick} can go off and do things without you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 6.5.2 Replacing Lost Sidekicks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As a {\b consequence of defeats} in which they participated, {\b sidekicks} can be killed or leave your service permanently.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Defeat in physical {\b contests} can lead to literal death. Metaphorical deaths from non-violent {\b contests} indicate a break you. The {\b sidekick} may angrily withdraw from your service, but is more likely to sorrowfully retire. You may be able to bring a {\b sidekick} back from metaphorical death by overcoming {\b story obstacles}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you lose a {\b sidekick}, they may create a new one without needing to spend a {\b hero point}. You must explain how the new {\b sidekick} has come to be your new {\b follower}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may find it convenient to promote {\b retainers} to {\b sidekick} status, giving them names and personalities, with a sudden improvement in {\b abilities} and {\b ratings} to match.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 6.5.3 Retainers\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b retainer} is a more or less anonymous servant or helper. You may specify a single {\b retainer}, or, where appropriate to your character concept, an entire staff of them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Like any other {\b ability}, a {\b retainer} {\b ability} allows you to overcome relevant {\b story obstacles} by engaging in a {\b contest}. To model the contribution of {\b retainers}, when you are acting, you can use them to {\b augment} your {\b ability}. Your GM can rule that {\b consequences of defeat} apply to {\b retainers}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Retainers} generally regard you with all the affection and loyalty due to an employer or master. If you treat them more poorly than is expected for their culture, your GM should increase the {\b resistance class} of attempts to make use of their talents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you lose {\b retainers} for any reason, you can replace them simply by providing a convincing explanation of how you go about it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 6.6 Relationships as Flaws\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Certain relationships with {\b supporting characters} act as {\b flaws}. They impose obligations on you, prompting your GM to present you with {\b story obstacles} you have no choice but to overcome.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 6.6.1 Dependents\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A {\b dependent} is a person, usually a family member or loved one, who requires your aid and protection. Your GM should periodically create storylines in which your {\b dependent} is endangered.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rather than taking a {\b dependent} as a {\b flaw}, you may find it more fruitful to specify the nature of your relationship as an {\b ability}, such as {\i Love for Wife} or {\i Love for Son}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 6.6.2 Adversaries\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An {\b adversary} is a rival, enemy or other individual who can be relied upon to periodically disrupt your plans.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The {\b adversary\u8217's} goals are probably the opposite of yours, although they could be a bitter rival within the same community, organization, or movement.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To treat an {\b adversary} as an {\b ability}, rather than a {\b flaw}, describe your emotional response to them. Examples: {\i Hates Leonard Crisp}, {\i Fears the Electronaut}, {\i Sworn Vengeance Against Heimdall}. That way, you still inspire your GM to add the plot elements you desire, but can use your antipathy toward the enemy to {\b augment} your {\b target number}s against them.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 7. Hero Points\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hero points (HP)} are a resource that you must carefully allocate. They allow you to heighten your {\b victories} and dull your {\b defeats}. They are the currency you pay to improve your {\b abilities} over time.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 7.1 Improving Your Character\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You start each session with one {\b HP}. Any time that you take a significant action the GM can award you another {\b hero point}. The action should involve a {\b contest} but need not be successful. An action should be heroic or villainous in order to earn a {\b hero point}, not dull. Are the other players interested in what just happened? Don\u8217't trigger {\b contests} just to win {\b hero points}, your actions should drive story or character development forward.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 During a session you can spend those {\b HPs} as normal.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM should award a maximum of 5 {\b HPs} in a session to you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Unspent {\b HPs} at the end of the session become {\b experience points (XPs)} and accumulate between sessions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 When you accumulate 10 {\b XPs}, you can buy an advance. An advance allows you to select two of the following. You cannot choose an element more than once.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab [] +9 to a standalone {\b ability} or breakout {\b ability}; or +6 to a {\b keyword}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab [] +6 to a standalone {\b ability} or breakout {\b ability}; or +3 to a {\b keyword}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab [] a new standalone {\b ability} at 13; or a new breakout {\b ability} at + 1\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab [] a new standalone {\b ability} at 13\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab [] Turn a stand-alone {\b ability} into a {\b keyword} by adding a new +1 breakout {\b ability} to it.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 In some genres you may wish to maintain a tally of the total {\b XPs} earned as a measure of your reputation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 7.1.1 Catch-Ups\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To encourage well-rounded characters, a package deal, called a {\b catch-up}, becomes available whenever you acquire via improvement a new {\b mastery} in one of your {\b abilities} ({\b keyword} or stand-alone). Any time you one of your {\b ratings} crosses a {\b mastery} threshold (i.e.\u160?20 -> 21, 40 -> 41, etc). you may also improve up to three {\b abilities} or {\b keywords} of your choice increase by three points each, as long as the chosen {\b abilities} are currently rated five or more points lower than your newly adjusted {\b rating} in the raised {\b ability} that triggered the {\b catch-up}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 You may not increase the bonus of {\b breakout abilities} under a {\b keyword} with a {\b catch-up}, nor does net effective value of a breakout {\b ability} crossing a {\b mastery} threshold trigger a {\b catch-up}. Only a {\b keyword}\u8217's base {\b rating} is considered in this context.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 7.1.2 Directed Improvements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 On occasion your GM may increase one of your {\b abilities}, by +3, +6 or +9, or give you a new {\b ability}, usually rated at 13. These are called {\b directed improvements}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Directed improvements} are usually rewards for overcoming particularly important or dramatic {\b story obstacles}. They happen immediately, rather than at session\u8217's end.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Your GM will tend to use them to raise {\b abilities} that would otherwise fall behind, but should increase due to story logic, or introduce new {\b abilities} for the same reason.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 9 Appendix\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Glossary of Terms\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Ability} Anything you can apply to solve a problem or overcome an obstacle\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Advantage Point (AP)} A measure of advantage in an {\b extended contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Ally} A {\b supporting character} of roughly equal ability to your own.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b AP} Abbreviation for Advantage Point.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b AP Gifting} When you help another character, whilst uninvolved in a {\b contest}, by giving them {\b advantage points} in an {\b extended contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b AP Lending} When you help another character, whilst engaged in a {\b contest}, by lending them {\b advantage points}, in an {\b extended contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Asymmetrical Exchange} In a {\b extended contest}, where you are pressed by an opponent, but want to do something other than contend directly for the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Asymmetrical Round} In a {\b scored contest}, where you are pressed by an opponent, but want to do something other than contend directly for the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Assist} In a {\b scored contest}, if you are unengaged you may use an {\b assist} to reduce the {\b resource points} scored against another character.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Augment} Using one {\b ability} to help another {\b ability}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Automatic Victory} You have an appropriate {\b ability} and the GM feels {\b failure} is not interesting, or makes the PC looks un-heroic.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Background Event} An off-stage {\b bonus} or {\b penalty} applied to a {\b resource}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Base resistance} The TN for a {\b moderate resistance class}, from which all other {\b resistance classes} are figured as a {\b bonus} or {\b penalty}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Benefit of Victory} Long term positive modifier, because you won a {\b contest}, against a challenging opponent (not -6 or less than your {\b ability}). Usually a {\b state of fortune}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bid} Also an {\b AP Bid} or {\b advantage point bid} is your wager in an {\b extended contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bolster} A {\b story obstacle} to apply a bonus to a community {\b resource}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bonus} A positive modifier.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Boost} Spending points ahead of a {\b group simple contest outcome}, to improve the victory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Bump} An increment of the {\b result} of a roll, up or down. So a bump up moves a {\b fumble}, to a {\b failure}, to a {\b success} to a {\b critical}, a bump down moves a {\b critical}, to a {\b success}, to a {\b failure} to a {\b fumble}. One step is moved per {\b bump}. It is usually the impact of a {\b hero point} or {\b mastery}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Catch-Up} When you cross a {\b mastery} threshold you can increase lesser used {\b abilities} to ensure they keep pace.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Climax} A {\b long contest} {\b story obstacle} that provides the conclusion to a story.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Contact} A {\b supporting character} who shares an {\b occupation} or interest with your character.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Contest} Where there is uncertainty as to whether a PC can overcome a {\b story obstacle} or discover a secret, then your GM can call for a contest to determine if the PC succeeds or fails. A contest may be {\b simple} (one roll) of {\b extended} (a series of rolls).\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Consequences of Defeat} Long term negative modifier, because you lost a contest. Usually a {\b state of adversity}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Contest of Wherewithal} A {\b contest} that allows a {\b dying} character to complete one {\b final action}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Contest Framing} Setting the stakes of the {\b contest}, what is this conflict about. Often not the immediate aftermath of victory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Complete Defeat} No, and\u8230?. You have lost, and the impact is long-lasting, maybe even fatal or terminal.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Complete Victory} Yes, and\u8230? You have won, and the impact is long-lasting, possibly a permanent change in your favor.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Credibility Test} Is it possible to perform the action without an {\b ability}, with an ordinary {\b ability}, or only with a {\b extraordinary ability}?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Crisis Test} Used to determine if a {\b resource} that has a {\b penalty} creates a crisis.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Defeat} Your {\b result} is worse than the {\b resistance\u8217's} result.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Defensive Response} In a {\b long contest} you can choose a defensive {\b tactic} which reduces the {\b resource points} you lose on a negative {\b result}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Degree of Victory or Defeat} How well did you triumph, or how badly did you fail: {\b Critical}, {\b Success}, {\b Failure}, {\b Fumble}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dependent} A {\b supporting character} who depends on your PC.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Depletion} Use of a community {\b resource} leads to its depletion.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Directed Improvement} When your GM grants you a new {\b ability}, or an increase to an existing one, to recognize a story event.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Distinguishing Characteristic} The dominant personality {\b ability} that others recognize in a character.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Dying} A {\b state of adversity}, where the character\u8217's {\b defeat} will end their participation.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Edge} In an {\b extended contest} adds to the {\b APs} lost or transferred when you win an {\b exchange}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Exchange} In an {\b extended contest} a round is divided into two {\b exchanges} where both aggressor and defender act. In a {\b group extended contest} a round consists of a sequence of {\b exchanges} where everyone acts in turn. The GM determines the order of action.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extended Contest} A type of {\b long contest} in which you track the relative advantage one opponent has over another using {\b advantage points}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Experience Points (XP)} When you do not spend a {\b hero point} in a session it becomes an {\b experience point}, which can accumulate between sessions.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Extraordinary ability} Certain genres allow player characters to have {\b abilities} that exceed human norms, these are {\b extraordinary abilities}. A genre pack normally outlines what is possible as part of its extraordinary powers framework.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Failure} Rolling over your {\b target number}. It can be a {\b fumble} or just a plain {\b failure}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Final Action} An attempt by {\b defeated}, but unengaged, PCs to re-enter an {\b extended contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Flaw} An {\b ability} that penalizes you instead of helping you.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Fumble} The worst {\b failure} {\b result}, a notable failure either due to incompetence or bad luck.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Follower} A {\b supporting character} under your control. Either a {\b sidekick} or {\b retainer}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Framing the contest} You and your GM agree on the {\b prize} for the victor, and your tactic in trying to win it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Group Chained Contest} A {\b chained contest} in which more than a pair of opponents contend for the {\b prize}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Group Extended Contest} An {\b extended contest} in which more than a pair of opponents contend for the {\b prize}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Group Scored Contest} A {\b scored contest} in which more than a pair of opponents contend for the {\b prize}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Group Simple Contest} A {\b simple contest} where one side has multiple participants.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Graduated Goals} When a contestant has a {\b primary} and {\b secondary} goal, and may have to choose between them if their {\b outcome} is not a {\b major} or {\b complete} victory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Handicap} In an {\b extended contest} subtracts from the {\b APs} lost or transferred when you win an {\b exchange}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hero Point} Allows you to alter fate for a player character, either by a {\b bump} to their {\b result} or a {\b plot edit}. If unused, becomes an {\b experience point} at the end of the session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Hurt} A state of adversity, a flesh wound or injured pride, heals at the end of a session.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Keyword} A single {\b ability} that encompasses a range of abilities within it, such as an {\b occupation} or culture. An {\b ability} within an {\b umbrella keyword} is a {\b break-out ability}, an {\b ability} within a {\b package keyword} is a {\b stand-alone ability}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Long Contest} A {\b contest} where we drill-down to the individual exchanges that resolve the conflict. We support {\b scored}, {\b extended}, and {\b chained contests}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Major Defeat} No, and. You have lost, and the impact is long-lasting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Major Victory}, Yes, and. You have won, and the impact is long-lasting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Marginal Defeat} No, but\u8230? You don\u8217't get what you want, but the damage may be mitigated.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Marginal Victory} Yes, but\u8230? You get what you want, but you may have to make a hard choice.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Modifiers} Adjustments to a {\b target number} due to circumstance.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mastery} An {\b ability} {\b rating} that rises above 20 is said to have a {\b mastery}. {\b Masteries} cancel each other out in {\b contests}. {\b Masteries} that are not cancelled provide a {\b bump}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Minor Defeat} No\u8230? you don\u8217't get the agreed {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Minor Victory} Yes\u8230? you get the agreed {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Mismatched Goals} When the opposing sides in a {\b contest} want different {\b prizes}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Occupation} An {\b ability} that indicates the profession, or primary area of expertise, of your character.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Outcome} A {\b contest} has an {\b outcome}, described as a {\b victory} or {\b defeat} in obtaining the {\b prize} that was agreed in {\b contest framing} for any PCs involved.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Outcome Point} A point scored in favor one side in a {\b group simple contest}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Parting Shot} An attempt to make your opponent\u8217's {\b defeat} worse in an {\b long contest} ({\b scored} or {\b extended}), by \u8216'finishing them off\u8217'.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Patron} A {\b supporting character} with superior assets.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Penalty} A negative modifier.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Prize} What is at stake in the {\b contest}, decided during {\b framing}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rating} An ability has a rating, indicating how likely a character is to succeed at using it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Resistance} The forces opposing the PC in a conflict, or concealing a secret that must be overcome by using an {\b ability} in a {\b contest}. One of: {\b Nearly Impossible}, {\b Very High}, {\b High}, {\b Moderate}, {\b Low}, {\b Very Low}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Resistance Class} The {\b bonus} or {\b penalty} to the {\b resistance} {\b TN}, depending on the GM\u8217's interpretation of how {\i dramatically} hard the {\b story obstacle} is.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Resolution Point (RP)} In a {\b scored contest} an {\b RP} tracks the advantage one contestant has over the other.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Resource} A community {\b ability} that your PC may draw on.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Result} The {\b outcome} of a die roll against a {\b TN}. One of {\b critical}, {\b success}, {\b failure}, and {\b fumble}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Retainer} A {\b follower} of your PC who is not \u8216'fleshed out\u8217' and cannot act independently.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Rising Action} A {\b scored contest} where the {\b story obstacle} is a step towards the final {\b story obstacle} of this story.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Risky Gambit} In a {\b long contest} you can take an action that puts you at more risk on defeat, but enhances victory.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Round} A {\b long contest} is broken into a series of rounds, each of which is an attempt to obtain the {\b prize}. In an {\b extended contest} a round is further broken into a number of {\b exchanges} in which all participants have the chance to act.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Scored Contest} A {\b long contest} where we track the relative advantage one contestant has over another using {\b resolution points}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Sidekick} A fleshed out {\b follower} of your PC who can act independently.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Supporting Characters} Additional characters under the player\u8217's control that play a supporting role to their PC.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Simple Contest} A one roll resolution method, the default {\b contest} type, used when learning the {\b outcome} matters more than the breakdown of how you achieved it.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stand Alone Ability} An {\b ability} raised separately to a {\b keyword}. It may have been added to the character as part of a {\b package keyword}, or on its own.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b State of Adversity} How \u8216'banged up\u8217' a PC is, physically or metaphorically, following a {\b defeat}: : {\b Hurt}, {\b Injured}, {\b Impaired}, {\b Dying} and {\b Dead}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b State of Fortune} A \u8216'boost\u8217' to the PC which may be physical or metaphorical.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Story Obstacle} Something that prevents you from getting what you want, the {\b prize}. A {\b story obstacle} is the trigger for a {\b contest}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Stretch} A {\b penalty} applied to an {\b ability} because it is stretches credibility that it is a reasonable {\b tactic}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Success} Rolling under your {\b target number}. It can be a {\b critical} or just a plain {\b success}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Target Number (TN)} The number, either an {\b ability} {\b rating}, or a {\b resistance}, to roll under or equal to in order to {\b succeed}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b TN} Abbreviation for {\b Target Number}\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Unrelated Action} An action when you are disengaged in a {\b long contest} that does not relate to your attempt to win the {\b prize}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Victory} Your {\b result} is a better roll than the {\b resistance}.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Version Changes\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs28 Version 2.2\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Uses of he/she changed to they/their\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Flagged some rules that are not required, as optional to allow those using the SRD to safely omit them if not required.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Clarified that contest results are only reciprocal between PCs. When the contest is against a resistance set by the GM, the results indicate whether the PC gains the prize, and the GM narrates the result for the resistance based on this.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Rephrased the contest results to emphasize: Yes, No, And\u8230?, But\u8230?, This change is designed to dissuade GMs from misunderstanding that the prize is obtained on a marginal victory, one of the most common result types, and instead encourage GMs to allow PCs to fail forward on such a result by introducing downstream complications.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Provided clarity that consequences of defeat and benefit of victory are optional and the GM should focus on using the prize to narrate the outcome of a contest, only applying mechanical benefits if they make sense.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Specific Ability Bonuses are dropped. They were hard for the GM to adjudicate and the same intent is better served by using a stretch on a broad ability when contesting against a PC with a more specific ability.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab A winning group in a Group Simple Contest does not suffer a Consequence of Defeat as a result of a low RP difference victory any more, the GM should narrate consequences from the level of victory, if appropriate.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Dropped the negative consequences for the winner in an Extended Contest during the Rising Action. If the winner is a PC the degree of success already suggests consequences in addition to the prize on a marginal victory. So this rule is over-complication.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Made it clear that only a PC should use a parting shot, not the resistance.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Switched to addressing you the player, using your GM for the Games Master, and we for the game authors\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Long contests include both extended contest and scored contests. Between 1 and 2 extended contests switched to scored contests, this approach restores both variants, but requires changing the generic name to a long contest.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Dropped edges and handicaps from extended contests - we use a resistance not stats, so makes no sense to have edges and handicaps\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added alternate mechanisms for determining if resistance advances and when\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added story-based resistance mechanics\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added story-based improvements\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added States of Fortune to mirror States of Adversity. Overall mirrored benefits and consequences more closely\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added Escalating Contests\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added Mythic Russia\u8217's Plot Edits\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Added Mythic Russia\u8217's Pyrrhic Victories for Extended Contests but as Climatic Contests\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Changed degree of success and failure, to degree of victory and defeat, as success and failure are for individual rolls, victory and defeat once compared.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Simplified how multiple opponents are handled\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Clarified contest outcomes for long contests, and how to determine the overall winner in a long contest\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa0 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Do not allow transfers in an extended contest where the abilities differ by 6 or more. Consistent with benefits of victory and prevents \u8216'loading up on mooks\u8217' as a strategy.\sa180\par}
}
